HAL Pins
========
`HAL Tutorial <https://youtu.be/LU4914GyGXI>`_

Creating widgets that connect to HAL (Hardware Abstract Layer) is as simple as
adding a few Dynamic Properties. See :doc:`property` for step by step
instructions to add a Dynamic Property.

Typically the Dynamic Properties are String type with some exceptions being Bool
and Color. Connections from Flex HAL objects to other HAL objects must be done
in the file assigned to the POSTGUI_HALFILE variable in the [HAL] section
typically named `postgui.hal`.
::

	[HAL]
	HALFILE = main.hal
	POSTGUI_HALFILE = postgui.hal

The property `pin_name` defines the HAL pin name that is prefixed with
`flexhal`. A pin_name of my-button would be `flexhal.my-button` in HAL.

.. note:: Dynamic Property names are case sensitive and must be all lower case.
   Hal types and directions are case sensitive and must be all caps. The
   function value must be lower case.

.. note:: Hal pin names can containe a-z, A-Z, 0-9, underscore _, or dash -.

Button
------

A QPushButton, QCheckBox or QRadioButton can be assigned to a HAL `bit` pin by
adding four string type Dynamic Properties. A pin_name of my-button would be
`flexhal.my-button` in HAL.

.. csv-table:: HAL Push Button
   :width: 100%
   :align: center

	**Property Name**, **Pin Value**
	function, hal_pin
	pin_name, any unique name
	hal_type, HAL_BIT
	hal_dir, HAL_OUT

Optionally the button can be disabled when the power is off by adding a
Dynamic Property named `state_off` and setting the value to `disabled`.

Optionally if the HAL button requires all joints to be homed before being
enabled, you can specify that by adding a Dynamic Property named `required` and
set the value to `homed`.

.. csv-table:: HAL Button Options
   :width: 100%
   :align: center

	**Property Name**, **Pin Value**
	state_off, disabled
	required, homed

.. image:: /images/hal-09.png
   :align: center

.. warning:: By default, no QRadioButtons are checked unless you set one checked
   in the Designer. Starting up with none checked could be a problem if you
   expect one to be selected at startup.

.. _SpinBoxTag:

Spinbox
-------

A QSpinBox or QDoubleSpinBox can be a HAL `number` pin by adding four string
type Dynamic Properties. The pin_name used will create a HAL pin prefixed with
`flexhal.` A pin_name of my-spinbox would be in HAL `flexhal.my-spinbox`. The
spinbox is an Out type that will set the value of the HAL pin to match the
value of the spinbox.

.. csv-table:: HAL Spin Box
   :width: 100%
   :align: center

	**Property Name**, **Pin Value**
	function, hal_pin
	pin_name, any unique name
	hal_type, HAL_FLOAT or HAL_S32 or HAL_U32
	hal_dir, HAL_OUT

.. note:: A QSpinBox can only be HAL_S32 or HAL_U32 data type. A QDoubleSpinBox
   can only be HAL_FLOAT data type.

Slider
------

A QSlider can be a HAL pin by adding these four string type Dynamic Properties.
The pin_name used will create a HAL pin prefixed with `flexhal.` A pin_name of
my-slider would be in HAL `flexhal.my-slider`. A QSlider supports only integers
so to connect it to a float HAL pin use conv_s32_float or conv_u32_float.

See :doc:`property` for step by step instructions to add a Dynamic Property

.. csv-table:: HAL Slider
   :width: 100%
   :align: center

	**Property Name**, **Pin Value**
	function, hal_pin
	pin_name, any unique name
	hal_type, HAL_S32 or HAL_U32
	hal_dir, HAL_OUT

HAL I/O
-------

A HAL I/O object has an input and output on the same pin. The pin can set an
input pin of another HAL object and the pin can be set by another HAL object
output pin. The HAL I/O will stay synchronized with the pin it's connected to.

.. NOTE The connected pins must be of the same HAL type.

A QPushButton (set to checkable), QCheckBox, QSpinBox, QDoubleSpinBox or a
QSlider can be a HAL I/O object.

.. csv-table:: HAL I/O
   :width: 100%
   :align: center

	**Property Name**, **Pin Value**
	function, hal_io
	pin_name, any unique name
	hal_type, HAL_BIT for a QCheckBox or QPushButton
	hal_type, HAL_FLOAT for a QDoubleSpinBox
	hal_type, HAL_S32 or HAL_U32 for a QSpinBox or QSlider
	hal_dir, HAL_IO

Label
-----

A QLabel can be used to monitor HAL pins. HAL connections must be made in the
post gui HAL file. The pin_name used will create a HAL pin prefixed with
`flexhal.` A pin_name of my-reader would be in HAL `flexhal.my-reader`.

.. csv-table:: HAL Label
   :width: 100%
   :align: center

	**Property Name**, **Pin Value**
	function, hal_pin
	pin_name, any unique name
	hal_type, HAL_BIT or HAL_FLOAT or HAL_S32 or HAL_U32
	hal_dir, HAL_IN

.. note:: A HAL_FLOAT QLabel can have a string Dynamic Property called
   `precision` with a value of the number of decimal digits.

Bool Label
----------

A QLabel of hal_type HAL_BIT can have True and False text by adding two
additional Dynamic Properties.

See :doc:`property` for step by step instructions to add a Dynamic Property

.. csv-table:: HAL Bool Label
   :width: 100%
   :align: center

	**Property Name**, **Pin Value**
	function, hal_pin
	pin_name, any unique name
	hal_type, HAL_BIT
	hal_dir, HAL_IN
	true_text, text to display when True
	false_text, text to display when False

.. image:: /images/hal-bool-label-01.png
   :align: center

Multi-State Label
-----------------

A QLabel of hal_type HAL_U32 can have multiple text by adding as many Dynamic
Properties as needed. The `text_n` starts at 0 for example text_0, text_1 etc.

.. csv-table:: HAL Multi-State Label
   :width: 100%
   :align: center

	**Property Name**, **Pin Value**
	function, hal_msl
	pin_name, any unique name
	hal_type, HAL_U32
	hal_dir, HAL_IN
	text_n, text to display when value is equal to n

.. note:: The text values must start at 0 and be sequencial.

.. image:: /images/hal-msl.png
   :align: center

LED
---
A QLabel can be used as a HAL LED indicator by adding the following properties
to a blank label. Colors are optional, if not supplied red for off and green
for on will be used. The pin_name is the hal name the LED will have.

The HAL LED needs to be connected in the postgui.hal file and can only be
connected to a HAL pin of type bit with a HAL direction of OUT or a signal that
is connected to a HAL pin of type bit with a HAL direction of OUT. Only one OUT
direction can be connected to a signal while multiple IN directions can be
connected to a signal.

.. csv-table:: HAL LED
   :width: 100%
   :align: center

	**Property Type**, **Property Name**, **Pin Value**
	Bool, hal_led, True
	String, function, hal_led
	String, pin_name, any unique name
	String, hal_type, HAL_BIT
	String, hal_dir, HAL_IN
	Color, on_color, color of your choice
	Color, off_color, color of your choice

.. NOTE:: Select Other to get the list and select Color. You can copy and paste
   the hex color value into the color picker. 

LCD
---

A QLCDNumber can be used to monitor HAL pins. HAL connections must be made in
the post gui HAL file. The pin_name used will create a HAL pin prefixed with
`flexhal.` A pin_name of my-reader would be in HAL `flexhal.my-reader`.

.. csv-table:: HAL LCD
   :width: 100%
   :align: center

	**Property Name**, **Pin Value**
	function, hal_pin
	pin_name, any unique name
	hal_type, HAL_FLOAT or HAL_S32 or HAL_U32
	hal_dir, HAL_IN

.. note:: A HAL_FLOAT QLCDNumber can have a string Dynamic Property called
   `precision` with a value of the number of decimal digits.

Progress Bar
------------

A QProgressBar can be used to monitor HAL pins. HAL connections must be made in
the post gui HAL file. The pin_name used will create a HAL pin prefixed with
`flexhal.` A pin_name of my-bar would be in HAL `flexhal.my-bar`.

.. csv-table:: HAL Progressbar
   :width: 100%
   :align: center

	**Property Name**, **Pin Value**
	function, hal_pin
	pin_name, any unique name
	hal_type, HAL_S32 or HAL_U32
	hal_dir, HAL_IN

Step by Step
------------

.. note:: This example is for a QPushButton

You can use a QPushButton as a momentary output, or with `checkable` selected
for a toggle type output, or QCheckBox or QRadioButton for a HAL output control.

Drag the widget into the GUI and the widget can have any name you like; names
are not used by HAL controls in Flex GUI - it is the following that matters.

Click on the widget to select it then click on the green plus sign in the
Property Editor for that widget to add a Dynamic Property and select String.

See :doc:`property` for step by step instructions to add a Dynamic Property

.. image:: /images/hal-01.png
   :align: center

Set the Property Name to `function` and click Ok

.. image:: /images/hal-02.png
   :align: center

Set the Value to `hal_pin`; this tells Flex GUI that this widget is going to be
for a HAL pin

.. image:: /images/hal-03.png
   :align: center

Add another string Dynamic Property named `pin_name` and set the value to any
unique name

.. image:: /images/hal-04.png
   :align: center

Add another Dynamic Property named `hal_type` and set the value to HAL_BIT

.. image:: /images/hal-05.png
   :align: center

Add another Dynamic Property named `hal_dir` and set the value to HAL_OUT

.. image:: /images/hal-06.png
   :align: center

If you added Show HAL to your menu, you can open up the `Halshow` program and
view the pin names

.. image:: /images/hal-07.png
   :align: center

The pin names will all start with `flexhal` plus the unique name you gave them

.. image:: /images/hal-08.png
   :align: center

Now you can connect the Flex HAL pin in the postgui.hal file like normal
::

	net some-signal-name flexhal.hal-test-01 => some-other-pin-in

After installing Flex GUI, from the CNC menu, you can copy the Flex GUI examples
and look at the hal-btn example.


HAL Pin Types::

	HAL_BIT
	HAL_FLOAT
	HAL_S32
	HAL_U32

HAL Pin Directions::

	HAL_IN
	HAL_OUT
	HAL_IO


