docs_flex/source/labels.rst, before:

Status Labels
=============
`Status Labels Tutorial <https://youtu.be/wwT9fDTUa0c>`_

Status labels are created using a QLabel and setting the `Object Name`. Status
labels come in two forms. A single-status-label like `Machine Status` only
contains one piece of information, such as `OFF`, `RUN`, etc.

A multiple-status-label like the `axis` or `joint` dictionaries have multiple
items and displays for all joints. Multiple-status-labels use a number
identifier to select the axis, joint, or spindle information wanted.

When creating a status label, set the `objectName` to the status you want to
display

.. image:: /images/status-01.png
   :align: center

Precision
---------

Labels that return float values default to 3 decimal places for metric and 4
for inch.

To override the default, select the label then click on the Green Plus sign
in the Property Editor to add a Dynamic Property and select String.
See :doc:`property`

.. image:: /images/status-02.png
   :align: center

Set the Property Name to `precision`:

.. image:: /images/status-03.png
   :align: center

Set the Value to how many decimal places you want for that status label

.. image:: /images/status-04.png
   :align: center

For more information about status labels read the LinuxCNC `Python Interface
Status Attributes
<http://linuxcnc.org/docs/stable/html/config/python-interface.html>`_

Status Labels
-------------

Status Labels are created by adding a QLabel and changing the Object Name to one
of the following. Some status labels use a dictionary to look up the name instead
of displaying the integer the name is displayed.

.. code-block:: text

	acceleration_lb - returns float
	reflects the INI entry [TRAJ]DEFAULT_LINEAR_ACCELERATION, if that entry is not
	found it returns 1e+99

	active_queue_lb - returns integer
	number of motions blending

	actual_position_lb - returns tuple of floats
	current trajectory position, (x y z a b c u v w) in machine units

See the `Axis Position <#axis-position-labels>`_ labels for individual axis
positions.

.. code-block:: text

	adaptive_feed_enabled_lb - returns boolean
	status of adaptive feedrate override

	ain_lb - returns tuple of floats
	current value of the analog input pins

	angular_units_lb - returns float - precision can be set
	machine angular units per deg, reflects [TRAJ]ANGULAR_UNITS

	aout_lb - returns tuple of floats
	current value of the analog output pins

	axis_lb - returns tuple of dicts
	reflecting current axis values

	axis_mask_lb - returns integer
	sum of the axes by [TRAJ]COORDINATES X=1, Y=2, Z=4, A=8, B=16, C=32, U=64, V=128, W=256

	block_delete_lb - returns boolean
	block delete current status

	call_level_lb - returns integer
	current subroutine depth. - 0 If not in a subroutine

	command_lb - returns string
	currently executing command

	current_line_lb - returns integer
	currently executing line

	current_vel_lb - returns float - precision can be set
	current velocity in user units per second

	cycle_time_lb - returns float - precision can be set
	thread period

	debug_lb - returns integer
	debug flag from the INI file

	delay_left_lb - returns float - precision can be set
	remaining time on G4 dwell command in seconds

	din_lb - returns tuple of integers
	current value of the digital input pins

	distance_to_go_lb - returns float - precision can be set
	remaining distance of current move as reported by trajectory planner

	echo_serial_number_lb - returns integer
	The serial number of the last completed command sent by a UI to task.
	All commands carry a serial number. Once the command has been executed,
	its serial number is reflected in echo_serial_number

	enabled_lb - returns boolean
	trajectory planner enabled flag

	estop_lb - returns integer
	Returns either STATE_ESTOP = 1) or not = 0)

	exec_state_lb - returns integer that is used to lookup the state name.
	task execution state. One of EXEC_ERROR = 1, EXEC_DONE = 2,
	EXEC_WAITING_FOR_MOTION = 3, EXEC_WAITING_FOR_MOTION_QUEUE = 4,
	EXEC_WAITING_FOR_IO = 5, EXEC_WAITING_FOR_MOTION_AND_IO = 7,
	EXEC_WAITING_FOR_DELAY = 8, EXEC_WAITING_FOR_SYSTEM_CMD = 9,
	EXEC_WAITING_FOR_SPINDLE_ORIENTED = 10).

	feed_hold_enabled_lb - returns boolean
	enable flag for feed hold

	feed_override_lb - returns boolean
	 enable flag for feed override

	file_lb - returns string
	currently loaded G-code filename with path

	flood_lb - returns integer that is used to lookup the state of OFF or ON
	Flood status, either FLOOD_OFF = 0) or FLOOD_ON = 1)

	g5x_index_lb - returns integer that is used to lookup the coordinate system name
	currently active coordinate system, G54=1, G55=2 etc

	g5x_offset_lb - returns tuple of floats
	offsets of the currently active coordinate system X, Y, Z, U, V, W, A, B, C

	gcodes_lb - returns tuple of integers
	Active G-codes for each modal group.
	The integer values reflect the nominal G-code numbers multiplied by 10.
	(Examples: 10 = G1, 430 = G43, 923 = G92.3) 

	homed_lb - returns tuple of integers
	currently homed joints, 0 = not homed, 1 = homed 

See the `Axis Homed <#axis-homed-labels>`_ labels for individual axis home
status.

.. code-block:: text

	ini_filename_lb - returns string
	path to the INI file passed to linuxcnc

	inpos_lb - returns boolean
	machine-in-position flag

	input_timeout_lb - returns boolean
	flag for M66 timer in progress

	interp_state_lb - returns integer that is used to lookup the state name
	current state of RS274NGC interpreter. One of INTERP_IDLE = 1,
	INTERP_READING = 2, INTERP_PAUSED = 3, INTERP_WAITING = 4

	interpreter_errcode_lb - returns integer that is used to lookup the error name
	current RS274NGC interpreter return code
		INTERP_OK = 0,
		INTERP_EXIT = 1,
		INTERP_EXECUTE_FINISH = 2,
		INTERP_ENDFILE = 3,
		INTERP_FILE_NOT_OPEN = 4,
		INTERP_ERROR = 5

	joint - returns tuple of dicts
	reflecting current joint values

See the `Joint Status <#joint-status-labels>`_ labels for individual joint
status items.

.. code-block:: text

	joint_actual_position - returns tuple of floats
	actual joint positions

	joint_position - returns tuple of floats
	desired joint positions

	joints_lb - returns integer
	number of joints. Reflects [KINS]JOINTS INI value

	kinematics_type_lb - returns integer that is used to lookup the kinematics name
	The type of kinematics
		KINEMATICS_IDENTITY = 1
		KINEMATICS_FORWARD_ONLY = 2
		KINEMATICS_INVERSE_ONLY = 3
		KINEMATICS_BOTH = 4

	limit - returns tuple of integers
	axis limit masks. minHardLimit=1, maxHardLimit=2, minSoftLimit=4, maxSoftLimit=8

	linear_units_lb - returns float - precision can be set
	machine linear units per mm, reflects [TRAJ]LINEAR_UNITS INI value

	lube_lb - returns integer
	lube on flag

	lube_level_lb - returns integer
	reflects iocontrol.0.lube_level

	machine_units_lb - return string - "MM" or "INCH"
	returns the machine's native units, reflects [TRAJ]LINEAR_UNITS INI value.
	All labels with an object name that starts with `machine_units_lb` will be 
	updated with this value, (eg. `machine_units_lb_1`) allowing the label to be 
	used multiple times in the UI. Updated once on start-up.

	max_acceleration_lb - returns float - precision can be set
	maximum acceleration. Reflects [TRAJ]MAX_ACCELERATION

	max_velocity_lb - returns float - precision can be set
	maximum velocity. Reflects the current maximum velocity. If not modified by
	halui.max-velocity or similar it should reflect [TRAJ]MAX_VELOCITY

	min_jog_vel_lb - returns int
	minimum jog velocity slider setting. Reflects the [DISPLAY] MIN_LINEAR_VELOCITY
	setting in user units per minute.

	max_jog_vel_lb - returns int
	maximum jog velocity slider setting. Reflects the [DISPLAY] MAX_LINEAR_VELOCITY
	setting in user units per minute.

	mcodes_lb - returns tuple of 10 integers
	currently active M-codes

	mist_lb - returns integer
	Mist status, either MIST_OFF = 0 or MIST_ON = 1

	motion_line_lb - returns integer
	source line number motion is currently executing

	motion_mode_lb - returns integer that is used to lookup the motion mode name
	This is the mode of the Motion controller.
		TRAJ_MODE_FREE = 1
		TRAJ_MODE_COORD = 2
		TRAJ_MODE_TELEOP = 3

	motion_type_lb - returns integer that is used to lookup the motion type name
	The type of the currently executing motion. One of:
		MOTION_TYPE_TRAVERSE = 1
		MOTION_TYPE_FEED = 2
		MOTION_TYPE_ARC = 3
		MOTION_TYPE_TOOLCHANGE = 4
		MOTION_TYPE_PROBING = 5
		MOTION_TYPE_INDEXROTARY = 6
		Or 0 if no motion is currently taking place.

	optional_stop_lb - returns integer
	option stop flag

	paused_lb - returns boolean
	motion paused flag

	pocket_prepped_lb - returns integer
	A Tx command completed, and this pocket is prepared. -1 if no prepared pocket

	position - returns tuple of floats
	trajectory position

	probe_tripped_lb - returns boolean
	True if probe has tripped

	probe_val_lb - returns integer
	reflects value of the motion.probe-input pin

	probed_position_lb - returns tuple of floats
	position where probe tripped

	probing_lb - returns boolean
	True if a probe operation is in progress

	program_units_lb - returns integer that is used to lookup the units name
		CANON_UNITS_INCHES = 1,
		CANON_UNITS_MM = 2

	program_units_lb - return string - "MM" or "INCH"
	returns the program's current units, reflects G20 and G21 mode.
	All labels with an object name that starts with `program_units_lb` will be 
	updated with this value, (eg. `program_units_lb_1`) allowing the label to be 
	used multiple times in the UI.

	queue_lb - returns integer
	current size of the trajectory planner queue

	queue_full_lb - returns boolean
	the trajectory planner queue is full

	rapid_override_lb - returns percent
	rapid override percent

	rapidrate_lb - returns float - precision can be set
	rapid override scale, 1.0 = 100%

	read_line_lb - returns integer
	line the RS274NGC interpreter is currently reading

	rotation_xy_lb - returns float - precision can be set
	current XY rotation angle around Z axis

	settings_lb - returns tuple of floats
	current interpreter settings
	settings[0] = sequence number
	settings[1] = feed rate
	settings[2] = speed
	settings[3] = G64 P blend tolerance
	settings[4] = G64 Q naive CAM tolerance

	spindles_lb - returns tuple of dicts
	returns the current spindle status

	state_lb - returns integer that is used to lookup the state name
	current command execution status
	One of RCS_DONE = 1, RCS_EXEC = 2, RCS_ERROR = 3

	task_mode_lb - returns integer that is used to lookup the task mode name
	current task mode
	One of  MODE_MANUAL = 1, MODE_AUTO = 2, MODE_MDI = 3

	task_paused_lb - returns integer
	task paused flag, not paused = 0, paused = 1

	task_state_lb - returns integer that is used to lookup the task state name
	current task state
	One of STATE_ESTOP = 1, STATE_ESTOP_RESET = 2, STATE_OFF = 3 STATE_ON = 4
	STATE_OFF is never seen

	tool_in_spindle_lb - returns integer
	current tool number in spindle (0 if no tool loaded)

	tool_from_pocket_lb - returns integer
	pocket number for the currently loaded tool (0 if no tool loaded)

	tool_offset_lb - returns tuple of floats
	offset values of the current tool

	tool_table_lb - returns tuple of tool_results
	list of tool entries. Each entry is a sequence of the following fields: id,
	xoffset, yoffset, zoffset, aoffset, boffset, coffset, uoffset, voffset,
	woffset, diameter, frontangle, backangle, orientation. The id and orientation
	are integers and the rest are floats.
	If id = -1 no tools are in the tool table.

.. note:: You don't have to use all the labels; only use the ones you need.

Axis Status
-----------

The Axis status contains status items for all 9 axes. Replace the `n` with
the number of the axis. Axis numbers start at 0 and go through 8. Returns a
float

.. csv-table:: Axis Status Labels
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :widths: 60 60

	axis_n_max_position_limit_lb, axis_n_min_position_limit_lb
	axis_n_velocity_lb, axis_n_vel_per_min_lb

.. note:: The Axis velocity label only reports back `jogging` speed; use the
   joint velocity label for `linear` speed.

Joint Status Labels
-------------------

The Joint status contains status items for 16 joints. Replace the `n` with
the number of the joint. Joint numbers start at 0 and go through 15

.. csv-table:: Joint Status Labels
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :widths: 60 60

	joint_n_backlash_lb, joint_n_enabled_lb
	joint_n_fault_lb, joint_n_ferror_current_lb
	joint_n_ferror_highmark_lb, joint_n_homed_lb
	joint_n_homing_lb, joint_n_min_soft_limit_lb
	joint_n_inpos_lb, joint_n_input_lb
	joint_n_jointType_lb, joint_n_max_ferror_lb
	joint_n_max_hard_limit_lb, joint_n_max_position_limit_lb
	joint_n_max_soft_limit_lb, joint_n_min_ferror_lb
	joint_n_min_hard_limit_lb, joint_n_min_position_limit_lb
	joint_n_output_lb, joint_n_override_limits_lb
	joint_n_units_lb, joint_n_vel_min_lb
	joint_n_vel_sec_lb

Joint Descriptions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

backlash (returns float) - Backlash in machine units. configuration parameter,
reflects [JOINT_n]BACKLASH.

enabled (returns integer) - non-zero means enabled

fault (returns integer) - non-zero means axis amp fault.

ferror_current (returns float) - current following error.

ferror_highmark (returns float) - magnitude of max following error.

homed (returns integer) - non-zero means has been homed.

homing (returns integer) - non-zero means homing in progress.

inpos(returns integer) - non-zero means in position.

input (returns float) - current input position.

jointType (returns integer) - type of axis configuration parameter, reflects
[JOINT_n]TYPE. LINEAR=1, ANGULAR=2. See Joint INI configuration for details.

max_ferror (returns float) - maximum following error. configuration parameter,
reflects [JOINT_n]FERROR.

max_hard_limit (returns integer) - non-zero means max hard limit exceeded.

max_position_limit (returns float) - maximum limit (soft limit) for joint
motion, in machine units. configuration parameter, reflects [JOINT_n]MAX_LIMIT.

max_soft_limit non-zero means max_position_limit was exceeded, int

min_ferror (returns float) - configuration parameter, reflects [JOINT_n]MIN_FERROR.

min_hard_limit (returns integer) - non-zero means min hard limit exceeded.

min_position_limit (returns float) - minimum limit (soft limit) for joint
motion, in machine units. configuration parameter, reflects [JOINT_n]MIN_LIMIT.

min_soft_limit (returns integer) - non-zero means min_position_limit was exceeded.

output (returns float) - commanded output position.

override_limits (returns integer) - non-zero means limits are overridden.

units (returns float) - joint units per mm, or per degree for angular joints.
(joint units are the same as machine units, unless set otherwise by the 
configuration parameter [JOINT_n]UNITS)

velocity (returns float) - current velocity.

Special Labels
--------------

Run from line label `start_line_lb`

Axis Position Labels
--------------------

Axis machine position labels (no offsets.) Returns a float

.. csv-table:: Machine Absolute Position Status Labels
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :widths: 40 40 40

	actual_lb_x, actual_lb_y, actual_lb_z
	actual_lb_a, actual_lb_b, actual_lb_c
	actual_lb_u, actual_lb_v, actual_lb_w

Axis position labels `including` all offsets. Returns a float

.. csv-table:: DRO Relative Status Labels
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :widths: 40 40 40

	dro_lb_x, dro_lb_y, dro_lb_z
	dro_lb_a, dro_lb_b, dro_lb_c
	dro_lb_u, dro_lb_v, dro_lb_w

Axis Distance to Go labels
--------------------------

.. csv-table:: Distance to Go Labels
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :widths: 40 40 40

	dtg_lb_x, dtg_lb_y, dtg_lb_z
	dtg_lb_a, dtg_lb_b, dtg_lb_c
	dtg_lb_u, dtg_lb_v, dtg_lb_w

Axis Homed Labels
-----------------

.. csv-table:: Axis Homed Labels
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :widths: 40 40 40

	home_lb_0, home_lb_1, home_lb_2
	home_lb_3, home_lb_4, home_lb_5
	home_lb_6, home_lb_7, home_lb_8

Offset Labels
-------------

Offsets for the currently active G5x coordinate system. Returns a float

.. csv-table:: G5x Status Labels
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :widths: 40 40 40

	g5x_lb_x, g5x_lb_y, g5x_lb_z
	g5x_lb_a, g5x_lb_b, g5x_lb_c
	g5x_lb_u, g5x_lb_v, g5x_lb_w

Offsets for G92. Returns a float

.. csv-table:: G92 Status Labels
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :widths: 40 40 40

	g92_lb_x, g92_lb_y, g92_lb_z
	g92_lb_a, g92_lb_b, g92_lb_c
	g92_lb_u, g92_lb_v, g92_lb_w

Velocity Labels
---------------

Tool velocity using two perpendicular joint velocities.

Name the label `two_vel_lb` and add two int type Dynamic Properties called
`joint_0` and `joint_1` and set the values to the perpendicular joint numbers
you want to calculate. Typically this would be for the X and Y axes.

To select an int type of Dynamic Property, select `Other` after clicking on
the green plus sign

.. image:: /images/status-05.png
   :align: center

Then select the Property Type of `int`

.. image:: /images/status-06.png
   :align: center

The two Dynamic Properties should look like this

.. image:: /images/status-07.png
   :align: center

Tool velocity using `three` perpendicular joint velocities.

Name the label `three_vel_lb` and add three int type Dynamic Properties called
`joint_0`, `joint_1` and `joint_2` and set the values to the perpendicular
joint numbers you want to calculate. Typically this would be for the X, Y and
Z axes.

I/O Status
----------

The I/O status contains status items for 64 I/O's. Replace the `n` with the
number of the I/O. I/O numbers start at 0 and go through 63. Analog I/O
returns a float. For example a QLabel with an object name of din_5_lb will
show the status of the `motion.digital-in-05` HAL pin

.. csv-table:: I/O Status Labels
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :widths: 40 40

	HAL Pin, Label Name
	motion.analog-in-nn, ain_n_lb
	motion.analog-out-nn, aout_n_lb
	motion.digital-in-nn, din_n_lb
	motion.digital-out-nn, dout_n_lb

Commit message:

integer_digits for labels and machine units suffix

docs_flex/source/labels.rst, after:

Status Labels
=============
`Status Labels Tutorial <https://youtu.be/wwT9fDTUa0c>`_

Status labels are created using a QLabel and setting the `Object Name`. Status
labels come in two forms. A single-status-label like `Machine Status` only
contains one piece of information, such as `OFF`, `RUN`, etc.

A multiple-status-label like the `axis` or `joint` dictionaries have multiple
items and displays for all joints. Multiple-status-labels use a number
identifier to select the axis, joint, or spindle information wanted.

When creating a status label, set the `objectName` to the status you want to
display

.. image:: /images/status-01.png
   :align: center

Precision
---------

Labels that return float values default to 3 decimal places for metric and 4
for inch.

To override the default, select the label then click on the Green Plus sign
in the Property Editor to add a Dynamic Property and select String.
See :doc:`property`

.. image:: /images/status-02.png
   :align: center

Set the Property Name to `precision`:

.. image:: /images/status-03.png
   :align: center

Set the Value to how many decimal places you want for that status label

.. image:: /images/status-04.png
   :align: center

For more information about status labels read the LinuxCNC `Python Interface
Status Attributes
<http://linuxcnc.org/docs/stable/html/config/python-interface.html>`_

Status Labels
-------------

Status Labels are created by adding a QLabel and changing the Object Name to one
of the following. Some status labels use a dictionary to look up the name instead
of displaying the integer the name is displayed.

.. code-block:: text

	acceleration_lb - returns float
	reflects the INI entry [TRAJ]DEFAULT_LINEAR_ACCELERATION, if that entry is not
	found it returns 1e+99

	active_queue_lb - returns integer
	number of motions blending

	actual_position_lb - returns tuple of floats
	current trajectory position, (x y z a b c u v w) in machine units

See the `Axis Position <#axis-position-labels>`_ labels for individual axis
positions.

.. code-block:: text

	adaptive_feed_enabled_lb - returns boolean
	status of adaptive feedrate override

	ain_lb - returns tuple of floats
	current value of the analog input pins

	angular_units_lb - returns float - precision can be set
	machine angular units per deg, reflects [TRAJ]ANGULAR_UNITS

	aout_lb - returns tuple of floats
	current value of the analog output pins

	axis_lb - returns tuple of dicts
	reflecting current axis values

	axis_mask_lb - returns integer
	sum of the axes by [TRAJ]COORDINATES X=1, Y=2, Z=4, A=8, B=16, C=32, U=64, V=128, W=256

	block_delete_lb - returns boolean
	block delete current status

	call_level_lb - returns integer
	current subroutine depth. - 0 If not in a subroutine

	command_lb - returns string
	currently executing command

	current_line_lb - returns integer
	currently executing line

	current_vel_lb - returns float - precision can be set
	current velocity in user units per second

	cycle_time_lb - returns float - precision can be set
	thread period

	debug_lb - returns integer
	debug flag from the INI file

	delay_left_lb - returns float - precision can be set
	remaining time on G4 dwell command in seconds

	din_lb - returns tuple of integers
	current value of the digital input pins

	distance_to_go_lb - returns float - precision can be set
	remaining distance of current move as reported by trajectory planner

	echo_serial_number_lb - returns integer
	The serial number of the last completed command sent by a UI to task.
	All commands carry a serial number. Once the command has been executed,
	its serial number is reflected in echo_serial_number

	enabled_lb - returns boolean
	trajectory planner enabled flag

	estop_lb - returns integer
	Returns either STATE_ESTOP = 1) or not = 0)

	exec_state_lb - returns integer that is used to lookup the state name.
	task execution state. One of EXEC_ERROR = 1, EXEC_DONE = 2,
	EXEC_WAITING_FOR_MOTION = 3, EXEC_WAITING_FOR_MOTION_QUEUE = 4,
	EXEC_WAITING_FOR_IO = 5, EXEC_WAITING_FOR_MOTION_AND_IO = 7,
	EXEC_WAITING_FOR_DELAY = 8, EXEC_WAITING_FOR_SYSTEM_CMD = 9,
	EXEC_WAITING_FOR_SPINDLE_ORIENTED = 10).

	feed_hold_enabled_lb - returns boolean
	enable flag for feed hold

	feed_override_lb - returns boolean
	 enable flag for feed override

	file_lb - returns string
	currently loaded G-code filename with path

	flood_lb - returns integer that is used to lookup the state of OFF or ON
	Flood status, either FLOOD_OFF = 0) or FLOOD_ON = 1)

	g5x_index_lb - returns integer that is used to lookup the coordinate system name
	currently active coordinate system, G54=1, G55=2 etc

	g5x_offset_lb - returns tuple of floats
	offsets of the currently active coordinate system X, Y, Z, U, V, W, A, B, C

	gcodes_lb - returns tuple of integers
	Active G-codes for each modal group.
	The integer values reflect the nominal G-code numbers multiplied by 10.
	(Examples: 10 = G1, 430 = G43, 923 = G92.3) 

	homed_lb - returns tuple of integers
	currently homed joints, 0 = not homed, 1 = homed 

See the `Axis Homed <#axis-homed-labels>`_ labels for individual axis home
status.

.. code-block:: text

	ini_filename_lb - returns string
	path to the INI file passed to linuxcnc

	inpos_lb - returns boolean
	machine-in-position flag

	input_timeout_lb - returns boolean
	flag for M66 timer in progress

	interp_state_lb - returns integer that is used to lookup the state name
	current state of RS274NGC interpreter. One of INTERP_IDLE = 1,
	INTERP_READING = 2, INTERP_PAUSED = 3, INTERP_WAITING = 4

	interpreter_errcode_lb - returns integer that is used to lookup the error name
	current RS274NGC interpreter return code
		INTERP_OK = 0,
		INTERP_EXIT = 1,
		INTERP_EXECUTE_FINISH = 2,
		INTERP_ENDFILE = 3,
		INTERP_FILE_NOT_OPEN = 4,
		INTERP_ERROR = 5

	joint - returns tuple of dicts
	reflecting current joint values

See the `Joint Status <#joint-status-labels>`_ labels for individual joint
status items.

.. code-block:: text

	joint_actual_position - returns tuple of floats
	actual joint positions

	joint_position - returns tuple of floats
	desired joint positions

	joints_lb - returns integer
	number of joints. Reflects [KINS]JOINTS INI value

	kinematics_type_lb - returns integer that is used to lookup the kinematics name
	The type of kinematics
		KINEMATICS_IDENTITY = 1
		KINEMATICS_FORWARD_ONLY = 2
		KINEMATICS_INVERSE_ONLY = 3
		KINEMATICS_BOTH = 4

	limit - returns tuple of integers
	axis limit masks. minHardLimit=1, maxHardLimit=2, minSoftLimit=4, maxSoftLimit=8

	linear_units_lb - returns float - precision can be set
	machine linear units per mm, reflects [TRAJ]LINEAR_UNITS INI value

	lube_lb - returns integer
	lube on flag

	lube_level_lb - returns integer
	reflects iocontrol.0.lube_level

	machine_units_lb - return string - "MM" or "INCH"
	returns the machine's native units, reflects [TRAJ]LINEAR_UNITS INI value.
	All labels with an object name that starts with `machine_units_lb` will be 
	updated with this value, (eg. `machine_units_lb_1`) allowing the label to be 
	used multiple times in the UI. Updated once on start-up.  Add a dynamic
	property `suffix` (string) to add a suffix, for example "/min" to display
	"<machine units>/min"

	max_acceleration_lb - returns float - precision can be set
	maximum acceleration. Reflects [TRAJ]MAX_ACCELERATION

	max_velocity_lb - returns float - precision can be set
	maximum velocity. Reflects the current maximum velocity. If not modified by
	halui.max-velocity or similar it should reflect [TRAJ]MAX_VELOCITY

	min_jog_vel_lb - returns int
	minimum jog velocity slider setting. Reflects the [DISPLAY] MIN_LINEAR_VELOCITY
	setting in user units per minute.

	max_jog_vel_lb - returns int
	maximum jog velocity slider setting. Reflects the [DISPLAY] MAX_LINEAR_VELOCITY
	setting in user units per minute.

	mcodes_lb - returns tuple of 10 integers
	currently active M-codes

	mist_lb - returns integer
	Mist status, either MIST_OFF = 0 or MIST_ON = 1

	motion_line_lb - returns integer
	source line number motion is currently executing

	motion_mode_lb - returns integer that is used to lookup the motion mode name
	This is the mode of the Motion controller.
		TRAJ_MODE_FREE = 1
		TRAJ_MODE_COORD = 2
		TRAJ_MODE_TELEOP = 3

	motion_type_lb - returns integer that is used to lookup the motion type name
	The type of the currently executing motion. One of:
		MOTION_TYPE_TRAVERSE = 1
		MOTION_TYPE_FEED = 2
		MOTION_TYPE_ARC = 3
		MOTION_TYPE_TOOLCHANGE = 4
		MOTION_TYPE_PROBING = 5
		MOTION_TYPE_INDEXROTARY = 6
		Or 0 if no motion is currently taking place.

	optional_stop_lb - returns integer
	option stop flag

	paused_lb - returns boolean
	motion paused flag

	pocket_prepped_lb - returns integer
	A Tx command completed, and this pocket is prepared. -1 if no prepared pocket

	position - returns tuple of floats
	trajectory position

	probe_tripped_lb - returns boolean
	True if probe has tripped

	probe_val_lb - returns integer
	reflects value of the motion.probe-input pin

	probed_position_lb - returns tuple of floats
	position where probe tripped

	probing_lb - returns boolean
	True if a probe operation is in progress

	program_units_lb - returns integer that is used to lookup the units name
		CANON_UNITS_INCHES = 1,
		CANON_UNITS_MM = 2

	program_units_lb - return string - "MM" or "INCH"
	returns the program's current units, reflects G20 and G21 mode.
	All labels with an object name that starts with `program_units_lb` will be 
	updated with this value, (eg. `program_units_lb_1`) allowing the label to be 
	used multiple times in the UI.

	queue_lb - returns integer
	current size of the trajectory planner queue

	queue_full_lb - returns boolean
	the trajectory planner queue is full

	rapid_override_lb - returns percent
	rapid override percent

	rapidrate_lb - returns float - precision can be set
	rapid override scale, 1.0 = 100%

	read_line_lb - returns integer
	line the RS274NGC interpreter is currently reading

	rotation_xy_lb - returns float - precision can be set
	current XY rotation angle around Z axis

	settings_lb - returns tuple of floats
	current interpreter settings
	settings[0] = sequence number
	settings[1] = feed rate
	settings[2] = speed
	settings[3] = G64 P blend tolerance
	settings[4] = G64 Q naive CAM tolerance

	spindles_lb - returns tuple of dicts
	returns the current spindle status

	state_lb - returns integer that is used to lookup the state name
	current command execution status
	One of RCS_DONE = 1, RCS_EXEC = 2, RCS_ERROR = 3

	task_mode_lb - returns integer that is used to lookup the task mode name
	current task mode
	One of  MODE_MANUAL = 1, MODE_AUTO = 2, MODE_MDI = 3

	task_paused_lb - returns integer
	task paused flag, not paused = 0, paused = 1

	task_state_lb - returns integer that is used to lookup the task state name
	current task state
	One of STATE_ESTOP = 1, STATE_ESTOP_RESET = 2, STATE_OFF = 3 STATE_ON = 4
	STATE_OFF is never seen

	tool_in_spindle_lb - returns integer
	current tool number in spindle (0 if no tool loaded)

	tool_from_pocket_lb - returns integer
	pocket number for the currently loaded tool (0 if no tool loaded)

	tool_offset_lb - returns tuple of floats
	offset values of the current tool

	tool_table_lb - returns tuple of tool_results
	list of tool entries. Each entry is a sequence of the following fields: id,
	xoffset, yoffset, zoffset, aoffset, boffset, coffset, uoffset, voffset,
	woffset, diameter, frontangle, backangle, orientation. The id and orientation
	are integers and the rest are floats.
	If id = -1 no tools are in the tool table.

.. note:: You don't have to use all the labels; only use the ones you need.

Axis Status
-----------

The Axis status contains status items for all 9 axes. Replace the `n` with
the number of the axis. Axis numbers start at 0 and go through 8. Returns a
float

.. csv-table:: Axis Status Labels
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :widths: 60 60

	axis_n_max_position_limit_lb, axis_n_min_position_limit_lb
	axis_n_velocity_lb, axis_n_vel_per_min_lb

.. note:: The Axis velocity label only reports back `jogging` speed; use the
   joint velocity label for `linear` speed.

Joint Status Labels
-------------------

The Joint status contains status items for 16 joints. Replace the `n` with
the number of the joint. Joint numbers start at 0 and go through 15

.. csv-table:: Joint Status Labels
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :widths: 60 60

	joint_n_backlash_lb, joint_n_enabled_lb
	joint_n_fault_lb, joint_n_ferror_current_lb
	joint_n_ferror_highmark_lb, joint_n_homed_lb
	joint_n_homing_lb, joint_n_min_soft_limit_lb
	joint_n_inpos_lb, joint_n_input_lb
	joint_n_jointType_lb, joint_n_max_ferror_lb
	joint_n_max_hard_limit_lb, joint_n_max_position_limit_lb
	joint_n_max_soft_limit_lb, joint_n_min_ferror_lb
	joint_n_min_hard_limit_lb, joint_n_min_position_limit_lb
	joint_n_output_lb, joint_n_override_limits_lb
	joint_n_units_lb, joint_n_vel_min_lb
	joint_n_vel_sec_lb

Joint Descriptions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

backlash (returns float) - Backlash in machine units. configuration parameter,
reflects [JOINT_n]BACKLASH.

enabled (returns integer) - non-zero means enabled

fault (returns integer) - non-zero means axis amp fault.

ferror_current (returns float) - current following error.

ferror_highmark (returns float) - magnitude of max following error.

homed (returns integer) - non-zero means has been homed.

homing (returns integer) - non-zero means homing in progress.

inpos(returns integer) - non-zero means in position.

input (returns float) - current input position.

jointType (returns integer) - type of axis configuration parameter, reflects
[JOINT_n]TYPE. LINEAR=1, ANGULAR=2. See Joint INI configuration for details.

max_ferror (returns float) - maximum following error. configuration parameter,
reflects [JOINT_n]FERROR.

max_hard_limit (returns integer) - non-zero means max hard limit exceeded.

max_position_limit (returns float) - maximum limit (soft limit) for joint
motion, in machine units. configuration parameter, reflects [JOINT_n]MAX_LIMIT.

max_soft_limit non-zero means max_position_limit was exceeded, int

min_ferror (returns float) - configuration parameter, reflects [JOINT_n]MIN_FERROR.

min_hard_limit (returns integer) - non-zero means min hard limit exceeded.

min_position_limit (returns float) - minimum limit (soft limit) for joint
motion, in machine units. configuration parameter, reflects [JOINT_n]MIN_LIMIT.

min_soft_limit (returns integer) - non-zero means min_position_limit was exceeded.

output (returns float) - commanded output position.

override_limits (returns integer) - non-zero means limits are overridden.

units (returns float) - joint units per mm, or per degree for angular joints.
(joint units are the same as machine units, unless set otherwise by the 
configuration parameter [JOINT_n]UNITS)

velocity (returns float) - current velocity.

Special Labels
--------------

Run from line label `start_line_lb`

Axis Position Labels
--------------------

Axis machine position labels (no offsets.) Returns a float

.. csv-table:: Machine Absolute Position Status Labels
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :widths: 40 40 40

	actual_lb_x, actual_lb_y, actual_lb_z
	actual_lb_a, actual_lb_b, actual_lb_c
	actual_lb_u, actual_lb_v, actual_lb_w

Axis position labels `including` all offsets. Returns a float

.. csv-table:: DRO Relative Status Labels
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :widths: 40 40 40

	dro_lb_x, dro_lb_y, dro_lb_z
	dro_lb_a, dro_lb_b, dro_lb_c
	dro_lb_u, dro_lb_v, dro_lb_w

Axis Distance to Go labels
--------------------------

.. csv-table:: Distance to Go Labels
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :widths: 40 40 40

	dtg_lb_x, dtg_lb_y, dtg_lb_z
	dtg_lb_a, dtg_lb_b, dtg_lb_c
	dtg_lb_u, dtg_lb_v, dtg_lb_w

Axis Homed Labels
-----------------

.. csv-table:: Axis Homed Labels
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :widths: 40 40 40

	home_lb_0, home_lb_1, home_lb_2
	home_lb_3, home_lb_4, home_lb_5
	home_lb_6, home_lb_7, home_lb_8

Offset Labels
-------------

Offsets for the currently active G5x coordinate system. Returns a float

.. csv-table:: G5x Status Labels
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :widths: 40 40 40

	g5x_lb_x, g5x_lb_y, g5x_lb_z
	g5x_lb_a, g5x_lb_b, g5x_lb_c
	g5x_lb_u, g5x_lb_v, g5x_lb_w

Offsets for G92. Returns a float

.. csv-table:: G92 Status Labels
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :widths: 40 40 40

	g92_lb_x, g92_lb_y, g92_lb_z
	g92_lb_a, g92_lb_b, g92_lb_c
	g92_lb_u, g92_lb_v, g92_lb_w

Velocity Labels
---------------

Tool velocity using two perpendicular joint velocities.

Name the label `two_vel_lb` and add two int type Dynamic Properties called
`joint_0` and `joint_1` and set the values to the perpendicular joint numbers
you want to calculate. Typically this would be for the X and Y axes.

To select an int type of Dynamic Property, select `Other` after clicking on
the green plus sign

.. image:: /images/status-05.png
   :align: center

Then select the Property Type of `int`

.. image:: /images/status-06.png
   :align: center

The two Dynamic Properties should look like this

.. image:: /images/status-07.png
   :align: center

Tool velocity using `three` perpendicular joint velocities.

Name the label `three_vel_lb` and add three int type Dynamic Properties called
`joint_0`, `joint_1` and `joint_2` and set the values to the perpendicular
joint numbers you want to calculate. Typically this would be for the X, Y and
Z axes.

I/O Status
----------

The I/O status contains status items for 64 I/O's. Replace the `n` with the
number of the I/O. I/O numbers start at 0 and go through 63. Analog I/O
returns a float. For example a QLabel with an object name of din_5_lb will
show the status of the `motion.digital-in-05` HAL pin

.. csv-table:: I/O Status Labels
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :widths: 40 40

	HAL Pin, Label Name
	motion.analog-in-nn, ain_n_lb
	motion.analog-out-nn, aout_n_lb
	motion.digital-in-nn, din_n_lb
	motion.digital-out-nn, dout_n_lb
