docs_flex/source/touch.rst, before:

Touch Screens
=============

Some entry widgets like MDI and Touch-Off have a touch-screen popup available
to make it easier for those users to enter the data.


Tool Bar
--------

To add a button to the tool bar without having a menu item that creates an
action, you just have to create the action yourself

.. image:: /images/new-action-01.png
   :align: center

The action creating window, when you type in the Text name, the Object name is
created for you

.. image:: /images/new-action-02.png
   :align: center

.. warning:: Make sure the Object name matches the Action Name created when
   you create a menu item - see the :doc:`menu` section for the full list of
   Action Names.

Now you just drag the action into the tool bar to create a new tool bar button

.. image:: /images/new-action-03.png
   :align: center

Another option is to just use QPushButtons in a QFrame, as every menu action
has a QPushButton as well that executes the same function.

Popup Keypads
-------------

If you drag a popup keypad to a different location, next time you use the keypad
for that object the popup keypad will remember the last location and move to
that location.

MDI
---

To enable the popup entry dialogs for the MDI entry, the QLineEdit object name
must be `mdi_command_le` and the Dynamic Property `input` must be `nccode` for
the NC codes popup or `keyboard` for a full keyboard popup.

The G codes dialog will appear when you touch the MDI entry box

.. image:: /images/touch-01.png
   :align: center

The arrow buttons change the letters section to different letters

.. image:: /images/touch-02.png
   :align: center

The full keyboard

.. image:: /images/touch-03.png
   :align: center


Touch Off
---------

The Coordinate System Touch-Off offset is a QLineEdit named `touchoff_le`.
To enable the number pad popup for the offset entry, add a Dynamic Property
named `input` and set the value to `number`

.. image:: /images/touch-04.png
   :align: center

Touch-Off:

.. image:: /images/touch-05.png
   :align: center

Tool Touch-Off
--------------

The Tool Touch-Off offset is a QLineEdit named `tool_touchoff_le`. To enable
the number pad popup for the offset entry, add a Dynamic Property named
`input` and set the value to `number`.

Spin Boxes
----------

QDoubleSpinBox and QSpinBox can use the popup numbers keypad by adding a
Dynamic Property named `input` and setting the value to `number`. If you enter
a float value for a QSpinBox the value will get converted to an integer

Line Edits
----------

A QLineEdit can have a popup entry for numbers, G codes, or a full keyboard.
Add a Dynamic Property named `input` and set the value to one of these
`number`, `nccode`, or `keyboard`.

Optionally, a QLineEdit can have a String type Dynamic Property `return_button`
with the objectName of a QPushButton that you want to receive a click event when
the Save button is pressed using a touch popup.

File Navigator
--------------

If a QListWidget with an objectName of `file_lw` is found, a touch-friendly
file selector is added. A Parent Directory and possibly a directory name with
an ellipsis can be used to change directories. Touch a file name and it is
loaded into the GUI.

If PROGRAM_PREFIX is specified, that will be the starting directory:

.. image:: /images/touch-06.png
   :align: center

Commit message:

update docs for popup custom stylesheet
Signed-off-by: John Thornton <dev@gnipsel.com>

docs_flex/source/touch.rst, after:

Touch Screens
=============

Some entry widgets like MDI and Touch-Off have a touch-screen popup available
to make it easier for those users to enter the data.


Tool Bar
--------

To add a button to the tool bar without having a menu item that creates an
action, you just have to create the action yourself

.. image:: /images/new-action-01.png
   :align: center

The action creating window, when you type in the Text name, the Object name is
created for you

.. image:: /images/new-action-02.png
   :align: center

.. warning:: Make sure the Object name matches the Action Name created when
   you create a menu item - see the :doc:`menu` section for the full list of
   Action Names.

Now you just drag the action into the tool bar to create a new tool bar button

.. image:: /images/new-action-03.png
   :align: center

Another option is to just use QPushButtons in a QFrame, as every menu action
has a QPushButton as well that executes the same function.

Popup Keypads
-------------

If you drag a popup keypad to a different location, next time you use the keypad
for that object the popup keypad will remember the last location and move to
that location.

If you use a custom stylesheet for the popup keypads the letters and numbers
start with key so they can be targeted with the following QSS style for example
to change the font size and weight. See :ref:`touch_ini` section of the ini
settings document.

.. code-block:: text

	QPushButton[objectName*="key"] {
		font-size: 24px;
		font-weight: 700;
	}

MDI
---

To enable the popup entry dialogs for the MDI entry, the QLineEdit object name
must be `mdi_command_le` and the Dynamic Property `input` must be `nccode` for
the NC codes popup or `keyboard` for a full keyboard popup.

The G codes dialog will appear when you touch the MDI entry box

.. image:: /images/touch-01.png
   :align: center

The arrow buttons change the letters section to different letters

.. image:: /images/touch-02.png
   :align: center

The full keyboard

.. image:: /images/touch-03.png
   :align: center


Touch Off
---------

The Coordinate System Touch-Off offset is a QLineEdit named `touchoff_le`.
To enable the number pad popup for the offset entry, add a Dynamic Property
named `input` and set the value to `number`

.. image:: /images/touch-04.png
   :align: center

Touch-Off:

.. image:: /images/touch-05.png
   :align: center

Tool Touch-Off
--------------

The Tool Touch-Off offset is a QLineEdit named `tool_touchoff_le`. To enable
the number pad popup for the offset entry, add a Dynamic Property named
`input` and set the value to `number`.

Spin Boxes
----------

QDoubleSpinBox and QSpinBox can use the popup numbers keypad by adding a
Dynamic Property named `input` and setting the value to `number`. If you enter
a float value for a QSpinBox the value will get converted to an integer

Line Edits
----------

A QLineEdit can have a popup entry for numbers, G codes, or a full keyboard.
Add a Dynamic Property named `input` and set the value to one of these
`number`, `nccode`, or `keyboard`.

Optionally, a QLineEdit can have a String type Dynamic Property `return_button`
with the objectName of a QPushButton that you want to receive a click event when
the Save button is pressed using a touch popup.

File Navigator
--------------

If a QListWidget with an objectName of `file_lw` is found, a touch-friendly
file selector is added. A Parent Directory and possibly a directory name with
an ellipsis can be used to change directories. Touch a file name and it is
loaded into the GUI.

If PROGRAM_PREFIX is specified, that will be the starting directory:

.. image:: /images/touch-06.png
   :align: center
