docs/source/ini.rst, before:

INI Settings
============

`Video Tutorial <https://youtu.be/JQXG9I7fwSo>`_

.. note:: The following Flex GUI settings are all located in the [DISPLAY]
   section of your LinuxCNC .ini file.

To use the Flex GUI (as opposed to Axis or others), change the DISPLAY value to
::

	DISPLAY = flexgui

If no GUI is specificed then the default GUI will be used.

.. note:: Any Flex GUI .ui and .qss files must be in the same LinuxCNC
   configuration directory as the .ini file.

To use your .ui file (created with Qt Designer), add a GUI key to the .ini
with its `filename`:
::

	GUI = my-file-name.ui

Stylesheets
-----------

To use a built-in input stylesheet, add either
::

	INPUT = touch
	or
	INPUT = keyboard

.. note:: If no INPUT nor QSS is specified, then no stylesheet will be used.

To use a custom .qss style sheet you created named `lightflex.qss`
::

	QSS = lightflex.qss

.. note:: If a QSS file is specified, `INPUT` and `THEME` are ignored.

Startup File
------------

To automatically open a NC file on startup, add the OPEN_FILE key with any
valid path. Use ~/ as a shortcut to the users home directory. Use ./ to indicate
that the file is in the configuration directory
::

	Full Path to the file
	OPEN_FILE = /home/john/linuxcnc/configs/myconfig/welcome.ngc
	or use the ~ for the users home directory
	OPEN_FILE = ~/linuxcnc/configs/flex_examples/probe_sim/square.ngc
	or use the ./ to use the current configuration directory
	OPEN_FILE = ./welcome.ngc
	or ust the ../ to use the parent directory of the configuration
	OPEN_FILE = ../welcome.ngc

File Location
-------------

Likewise, to specify a default loction for NC files, add the PROGRAM_PREFIX
item.
::

	PROGRAM_PREFIX = /home/john/linuxcnc/configs/myconfig
	or
	PROGRAM_PREFIX = ~/linuxcnc/configs/flex_examples/probe_sim
	or
	PROGRAM_PREFIX = ./
	or
	PROGRAM_PREFIX = ../

Tool Table Editor
-----------------

To specify a differnent tool table editor add an entry to the [DISPLAY] section.
If no entry is found then the default tool editor is used
::

	TOOL_EDITOR = tooledit

To control the columns displayed by the default tool editor add any of the valid
column specifiers seperated by a space. 
::

	TOOL_EDITOR = tooledit x y z a b c u v w diam front back orien

If no entry is found then the axes in the configuration and diameter are shown.
Tool, Pocket and Comment are always shown.

Resource File
-------------

To use a .py resource file (to add images to buttons with your qss stylesheet)
place the .py resource file in the configuration directory and add the
following line to the .ini file
::

	RESOURCES = resources.py

See the section on Resources for more info.


File Extensions
---------------

The keyboard file dialog defaults to `*.ngc` and this ignores case. To
specify the file extensions you want the file dialog to show, add an
EXTENSIONS key with the desired extensions seperated by a comma. The
extensions must be in the format `*.ext` with the asterisk and dot
::

	EXTENSIONS = `*.nc`, `*.G-code`, `*.ngc`, `*.txt`

To control the initial size of the screen, add either:
::

	SIZE = minimized
	SIZE = normal
	SIZE = maximized
	SIZE = full

.. warning:: Full size screen does not have any window controls. Make sure
   there is a way to close the GUI like an Exit button or you may not be able to
   close the application. As a last-resort, pressing ALT-F4 will close it.

Plotter
-------

The plotter background color can be set in the [FLEX] section of the ini. The
value is the Red,Greed,Blue color numbers from 0 to 1 with no space. So an entry
of 0.0,0.0,0.0 is black and 1.0,1.0,1.0 is white. Use a RGB 0-1 Color Picker to
select the RGB values.
::

	[FLEX]
	PLOT_BACKGROUND_COLOR = 0.0,0.0,0.0

Colors
------

The E-Stop and Power Buttons can have a static color for Open and Closed. The
Power Button can have a static color for Off and On.

Create a key in the ini file called FLEX_COLORS and use the following to 
control the static color of these items. The value can be any valid color 
specification; it's suggested to use RGB or Hex colors:
::

	[FLEX_COLORS]
	ESTOP_OPEN = rgb(128, 255, 128)
	ESTOP_CLOSED = rgb(255, 77, 77)
	POWER_OFF = rgb(255, 128, 128)
	POWER_ON = #00FF00

Another way to achieve this is is via adding and editing a .qss stylesheet
file. See the :doc:`style` section for more info.

Commit message:

add blue and blue-touch themes
Signed-off-by: John Thornton <dev@gnipsel.com>

docs/source/ini.rst, after:

INI Settings
============

`Video Tutorial <https://youtu.be/JQXG9I7fwSo>`_

.. note:: The following Flex GUI settings are all located in the [DISPLAY]
   section of your LinuxCNC .ini file.

To use the Flex GUI (as opposed to Axis or others), change the DISPLAY value to
::

	DISPLAY = flexgui

If no GUI is specificed then the default GUI will be used.

.. note:: Any Flex GUI .ui and .qss files must be in the same LinuxCNC
   configuration directory as the .ini file.

To use your .ui file (created with Qt Designer), add a GUI key to the .ini
with its `filename`:
::

	GUI = my-file-name.ui

Stylesheets
-----------

To use a built-in input stylesheet, add either
::

	INPUT = touch
	or
	INPUT = keyboard

.. note:: If no INPUT nor QSS is specified, then no stylesheet will be used.

To use a built in theme choose from one of the following
::

	THEME = blue
	THEME = blue-touch

To use a custom .qss style sheet you created named `lightflex.qss`
::

	QSS = lightflex.qss

.. note:: INPUT is checked first then THEME then QSS so the first entry found is
   used.

Startup File
------------

To automatically open a NC file on startup, add the OPEN_FILE key with any
valid path. Use ~/ as a shortcut to the users home directory. Use ./ to indicate
that the file is in the configuration directory
::

	Full Path to the file
	OPEN_FILE = /home/john/linuxcnc/configs/myconfig/welcome.ngc
	or use the ~ for the users home directory
	OPEN_FILE = ~/linuxcnc/configs/flex_examples/probe_sim/square.ngc
	or use the ./ to use the current configuration directory
	OPEN_FILE = ./welcome.ngc
	or ust the ../ to use the parent directory of the configuration
	OPEN_FILE = ../welcome.ngc

File Location
-------------

Likewise, to specify a default loction for NC files, add the PROGRAM_PREFIX
item.
::

	PROGRAM_PREFIX = /home/john/linuxcnc/configs/myconfig
	or
	PROGRAM_PREFIX = ~/linuxcnc/configs/flex_examples/probe_sim
	or
	PROGRAM_PREFIX = ./
	or
	PROGRAM_PREFIX = ../

Tool Table Editor
-----------------

To specify a differnent tool table editor add an entry to the [DISPLAY] section.
If no entry is found then the default tool editor is used
::

	TOOL_EDITOR = tooledit

To control the columns displayed by the default tool editor add any of the valid
column specifiers seperated by a space. 
::

	TOOL_EDITOR = tooledit x y z a b c u v w diam front back orien

If no entry is found then the axes in the configuration and diameter are shown.
Tool, Pocket and Comment are always shown.

Resource File
-------------

To use a .py resource file (to add images to buttons with your qss stylesheet)
place the .py resource file in the configuration directory and add the
following line to the .ini file
::

	RESOURCES = resources.py

See the section on Resources for more info.


File Extensions
---------------

The keyboard file dialog defaults to `*.ngc` and this ignores case. To
specify the file extensions you want the file dialog to show, add an
EXTENSIONS key with the desired extensions seperated by a comma. The
extensions must be in the format `*.ext` with the asterisk and dot
::

	EXTENSIONS = `*.nc`, `*.G-code`, `*.ngc`, `*.txt`

To control the initial size of the screen, add either:
::

	SIZE = minimized
	SIZE = normal
	SIZE = maximized
	SIZE = full

.. warning:: Full size screen does not have any window controls. Make sure
   there is a way to close the GUI like an Exit button or you may not be able to
   close the application. As a last-resort, pressing ALT-F4 will close it.

Plotter
-------

The plotter background color can be set in the [FLEX] section of the ini. The
value is the Red,Greed,Blue color numbers from 0 to 1 with no space. So an entry
of 0.0,0.0,0.0 is black and 1.0,1.0,1.0 is white. Use a RGB 0-1 Color Picker to
select the RGB values.
::

	[FLEX]
	PLOT_BACKGROUND_COLOR = 0.0,0.0,0.0

Colors
------

The E-Stop and Power Buttons can have a static color for Open and Closed. The
Power Button can have a static color for Off and On.

Create a key in the ini file called FLEX_COLORS and use the following to 
control the static color of these items. The value can be any valid color 
specification; it's suggested to use RGB or Hex colors:
::

	[FLEX_COLORS]
	ESTOP_OPEN = rgb(128, 255, 128)
	ESTOP_CLOSED = rgb(255, 77, 77)
	POWER_OFF = rgb(255, 128, 128)
	POWER_ON = #00FF00

Another way to achieve this is is via adding and editing a .qss stylesheet
file. See the :doc:`style` section for more info.
