docs/source/menu.rst, before:

Menu
====

.. note:: Every menu item has a command button, so you don't need to use any menu items if you don't want to.

Adding a menu item creates an action.  When you create File > Open menu, the `actionOpen` action is created.

.. image:: /images/menu-01.png
   :align: center

.. warning:: If you use the full-screen option, you will not be able to exit the application if you don't have the Exit action or an Exit Push Button.  Press ALT-F4 to forcibly close it.

.. code-block:: text

 File                    Action Name
  Open                   actionOpen
  Edit                   actionEdit
  Reload                 actionReload
  Save As                actionSave_As
  Edit Tool Table        actionEdit_Tool_Table
  Reload Tool Table      actionReload_Tool_Table
  Ladder Editor          actionLadder_Editor
  Quit                   actionQuit

 Machine
  E Stop                 actionE_Stop
  Power                  action_Power
  Run                    actionRun
  Run From Line          actionRun_From_Line
  Step                   actionStep
  Pause                  actionPause
  Resume                 actionResume
  Stop                   actionStop
  Clear MDI History      actionClear_MDI_History
  Copy MDI History       actionCopy_MDI_History

 Programs
  Show HAL               actionShow_HAL
  HAL Meter              actionHAL_Meter
  HAL Scope              actionHAL_Scope

 View

 Help
  About                 actionAbout
  Quick Reference       actionQuick_Reference


Action Names
------------

When you add a menu item, it creates an action and the Object Name is created from the menu name automatically.

The Object Name must match the above items `exactly` in order to be discovered by Flex GUI:

.. image:: /images/actions-01.png
   :align: center


Recent Files
------------

.. note:: The Recent menu item is added after the Open menu. There must be at least one menu item after Open for the Recent menu to be added.

Location of the Recent menu after the Open menu:

.. image:: /images/menu-02.png
   :align: center


Tool Bars
---------

If you right-click on the main window, you can add a Tool Bar:

.. image:: /images/tool-bar-01.png
   :align: center

To add actions to the Tool Bar, drag them from the Action Editor and drop them in the Tool Bar:

.. image:: /images/tool-bar-02.png
   :align: center

To set the style of a Tool Bar Button, use the action name and replace action with `flex_` for example the actionQuit would be `flex_Quit`.  See `Tool Bar Buttons` in the stylesheet examples.


Shortcut Keys
-------------

Shortcut keys can be added in the Property Editor by clicking in the shortcut Value box and pressing the key or key combination you want to use.  You can change text, icon Text, or tool Tip also.

.. image:: /images/actions-02.png
   :align: center

.. note:: A toolTip can be handy, however they might not work on touchscreens.

Commit message:

add homing and unhoming menu items
Signed-off-by: John Thornton <dev@gnipsel.com>

docs/source/menu.rst, after:

Menu
====

.. note:: Every menu item has a command button, so you don't need to use any menu items if you don't want to.

Adding a menu item creates an action.  When you create File > Open menu, the `actionOpen` action is created.

.. image:: /images/menu-01.png
   :align: center

.. warning:: If you use the full-screen option, you will not be able to exit the application if you don't have the Exit action or an Exit Push Button.  Press ALT-F4 to forcibly close it.

.. code-block:: text

 File                    Action Name
  Open                   actionOpen
  Edit                   actionEdit
  Reload                 actionReload
  Save As                actionSave_As
  Edit Tool Table        actionEdit_Tool_Table
  Reload Tool Table      actionReload_Tool_Table
  Ladder Editor          actionLadder_Editor
  Quit                   actionQuit

 Machine
  E Stop                 actionE_Stop
  Power                  action_Power
  Run                    actionRun
  Run From Line          actionRun_From_Line
  Step                   actionStep
  Pause                  actionPause
  Resume                 actionResume
  Stop                   actionStop
  Clear MDI History      actionClear_MDI_History
  Copy MDI History       actionCopy_MDI_History
  Homing                 this creates a home menu item for each axis
  Unhoming               this creates a unhome menu item for each axis

 Programs
  Show HAL               actionShow_HAL
  HAL Meter              actionHAL_Meter
  HAL Scope              actionHAL_Scope

 View

 Help
  About                 actionAbout
  Quick Reference       actionQuick_Reference


Action Names
------------

When you add a menu item, it creates an action and the Object Name is created from the menu name automatically.

The Object Name must match the above items `exactly` in order to be discovered by Flex GUI:

.. image:: /images/actions-01.png
   :align: center


Recent Files
------------

.. note:: The Recent menu item is added after the Open menu. There must be at least one menu item after Open for the Recent menu to be added.

Location of the Recent menu after the Open menu:

.. image:: /images/menu-02.png
   :align: center


Tool Bars
---------

If you right-click on the main window, you can add a Tool Bar:

.. image:: /images/tool-bar-01.png
   :align: center

To add actions to the Tool Bar, drag them from the Action Editor and drop them in the Tool Bar:

.. image:: /images/tool-bar-02.png
   :align: center

To set the style of a Tool Bar Button, use the action name and replace action with `flex_` for example the actionQuit would be `flex_Quit`.  See `Tool Bar Buttons` in the stylesheet examples.


Shortcut Keys
-------------

Shortcut keys can be added in the Property Editor by clicking in the shortcut Value box and pressing the key or key combination you want to use.  You can change text, icon Text, or tool Tip also.

.. image:: /images/actions-02.png
   :align: center

.. note:: A toolTip can be handy, however they might not work on touchscreens.
